# RFM-Analysis

This analysis was done to understand consumer behaviour by segmenting them based on their purchasing patterns or habits as opposed to solely analysing how much money a customer spends with the business. 

The dataset was contained into two excel files. One file contained the *sales data*, with over 300,000 rows while the other excel workbook contained the *segmentation template* as agreed with the business owners, on what groups to segment the customers based on the final scores.

After validating the data and ensuring optimum data quality, both tables were imported into Power BI.

## First Step 
-	Creating key measures such as R value, F value, M value using DAX formulas.
R value represents the difference between the customers last purchase date and the current date.
F value represents the count of customer transactions.
M value represents the total amount a particular customer has spent with the business.

- Creating a new table called “RFM Table” with the “SUMMARIZE” DAX function, with R, F and M values as columns.
….dax

## Second step
A score of **1 to 5 (from worst to best)** was assigned to customers in each of the three categories (using calculated columns) depending on the percentile where each RFM value falls.
……dax

Based on each R, F, and M value, the “best” customer would receive a top score in every category i.e., (the higher the number, the better the result). However, this rule does not apply to the (R) recency value because the higher the number, the longer the customer did not make purchases. Therefore, *larger numbers get lower values* from 1 to 5.

## Third step
After assigning an R score, F score and M score to each RFM value, another calculated column was created named “RFM Score” whose values were generated by combining all scores from the three categories.
…..dax

## Fourth step
-	Created a relationship between the segment table and the RFM Table using the RFM score column present in both.

## Fifth Step
Designing the dashboard using suitable visuals e.g. scatterplot, bar chart, multi row cards. I made sure that each visual answered potential business questions that may arise.

According to Techtarget.com, RFM analysis can be used to identify clusters of customers with similar values. This is called customer segmentation, this process is used to produce targeted direct marketing campaigns tailored to specific customer types. It enables businesses to use email or direct mail marketing to target messages that a large swath of specific kinds of customers are more likely to respond to.

# LIMITATIONS OF RFM MODEL
Using RFM modelling can provide valuable insights about customers, but it does not consider many other factors about the customer. In-depth targeted marketing may use “type of item purchased” as a factor. Customer demographics such as age and sex are not covered in RFM analysis either. 
Additionally, some businesses may use RFM analysis as an excuse to bombard high-ranking customers with messages and thus reduce response rates on campaigns that could otherwise be highly effective. On the other hand, it can cause marketers to neglect customers with low rankings even though many of them may be worth cultivating. For example, your RFM model may fail to account for the impact of past promotions or seasonality on RFM analysis. Likewise, a customer may have very little activity with your brand one month, yet be ready to engage in purchasing behaviour the following month due to a birthday or anniversary.
